In the previous episode, we implemented a ticket filtering system, and it works very
well.
We can filter tickets based upon all of its attributes, the status, the title, created
at and updated at.
But one of the things we didn't do is provide the ability to filter based upon the author
of the ticket.
So that if we wanted to get all of the tickets by a particular author, you know, we could
do that.
And it's perfectly acceptable to want that functionality.
However, I don't think we should be doing that through the tickets.
Because if we have the user ID, then we already know who that user is, and we should be going
through the user endpoint.
Because yes, we can include the tickets for a given user.
But of course, that's just including the tickets with the user payload.
What if we did something like this to where we could specify a specific user and then
have another segment that says tickets?
That way, we would get the tickets just for that user.
And then we could use our ticket filtering system to filter those tickets from there.
That makes the most sense to me.
So let's do it.
We are going to be redoing some things, though, however, because, you know, we've used this
term user because, well, we have users in the database.
But logically, we have really two types of users.
Right now, we just have an author.
But eventually, we will have the person that the ticket is assigned to.
So we need to make that distinction, at least as far as our controllers and all of our stuff
is concerned.
So we're going to make some changes.
First of all, let's go to our routes, because that's really the first place that we need
to go.
So API view one, and instead of users, we are going to say authors.
And we're going to change our users controller to authors controller.
So we just need to make those changes first.
And that means we will need to go to our user controller so that we can change its name.
And if we're going to change its name, we might as well change its file name as well.
So we'll get that done.
Now inside of our new authors controller, we need to change this.
It's still a user, but we're going to change the parameter name to author instead of user,
make the necessary changes there.
We'll worry about the update and all of that stuff later on.
For right now, we're just focusing on what we are working with at this point in time.
And then from here, we need to go to our resource classes.
So let's go to our user resource.
And instead of this route is users.star, we want authors.star.
We'll need to change basically everything where we use that, but that's it.
Let's go to our ticket resource because we have one use here.
And that should be it.
So let's do a sanity check.
Let's make a request for our user.
We need to change the URL to authors, and we don't have the tickets stuff yet.
So let's send that request.
We get our users.
We're good to go.
So let's move on now that we have made those changes.
And we are going to create a new controller, and it's called a nested resource controller.
So the idea is that our main resource is authors, and we are showing an individual author.
But then we want to show some child information, like the tickets.
The tickets are a child of the author.
So we will create a nested resource controller to where this is, of course, going to be API V1.
But then the controller name will be author.
That's the parent, ticket, that's the child, and then controller.
And I guess we should do author tickets controller.
And we could specify resource and all that stuff,
but I'm just going to create just a normal empty controller there.
And let's go back to our routes because we need to add our routes here.
And it's going to look like this.
We're going to have authors.tickets, once again, the parent-child relationship.
And then, of course, the name here will be author ticket controller.
And there we go as far as that is concerned.
So now we can go to our author tickets controller, and we will have this index method.
This is, of course, going to show all of the tickets for the given author ID.
So we will get that as the argument so that then we can return,
and we can use our ticket resource because we are still working with the ticket resource here.
It's just that we are working with a subset of those tickets based upon the author ID.
So we will have our collection, and then we will use our ticket model.
And for right now, let's just say where the user ID is equal to the author ID.
And then we want to paginate those results.
So if we take a look at this now, we are going to see that we have our tickets.
We have our data.
We see the tickets.
They are all formatted how they are supposed to be.
We have all of the information that we would need.
And aside from the URL, I mean, really, this is exactly like what we have as far as our normal tickets are concerned,
except that, of course, this is a subset.
These are all based upon the author ID of, well, in this case, five.
But here's the beautiful thing about this.
Since we already have our ticketing system all set up and ready to go,
we can still get our ticket filter here as our filters.
And we can still call our ticket filters.
But really, we don't want to do that.
We want to call where, and then we want our filters.
And all of that should work just like it did before.
Although, let's put this on multiple lines so that it's all nice and pretty.
So let's go back to Postman.
Let's use some of our filters.
So we want only the completed tickets.
So we will filter based upon the status.
The status code is C.
So call to undefined method filters.
Yes, because it is filter, isn't it?
It's not filters.
So with that, there we go.
We have our tickets that were all written by the user with an ID of one,
and the status is all completed.
Looks like there was just one.
Okay, so let's include canceled tickets as well,
because I want some verification that it's still working.
And yes, it is.
Okay, so we are able to see that we get both the completed and the canceled tickets.
And so now that we have the ability to filter our tickets, both for
a specific user and just in general, I want to add the ability to sort data.
And we will look at how in the next episode.